---
title: "XX. Which Antibiotic Should Be Used to Treat Patients With HAP/VAP Due to Carbapenem-Resistant Pathogens?"
tags: [医院获得性肺炎, 呼吸机相关性肺炎, HAP, VAP, 肺炎, 重症肺炎, 抗生素, 经验性治疗, MRSA, 铜绿假单胞菌, hospital-acquired pneumonia, ventilator-associated pneumonia, antibiotic, Pseudomonas, 万古霉素, 利奈唑胺, 碳青霉烯, 降钙素原, CPIS, 碳青霉烯耐药, 黏菌素, 多黏菌素B, 吸入黏菌素, 利福平, 氨苄西林舒巴坦, 鲍曼不动杆菌, 肾毒性, 7天疗程, 短疗程, 降阶梯, PCT指导停药, CPIS指导停药, 固定疗程, MDR, 非葡萄糖发酵革兰阴性杆菌, 艰难梭菌, 复发, 超感染, FDA]
source: "ATS/IDSA 2016 HAP/VAP Guidelines"
source_type: 临床指南
year: 2016
lang: en
---

# XX. Which Antibiotic Should Be Used to Treat Patients With HAP/VAP Due to Carbapenem-Resistant Pathogens?

# XX. Which Antibiotic Should Be Used to Treat Patients With HAP/VAP Due to Carbapenem-Resistant Pathogens?

#### Recommendation

1. In patients with HAP/VAP caused by a carbapenem-resistant pathogen that is sensitive only to polymyxins, we recommend intravenous polymyxins (colistin or polymyxin B) (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence), and we suggest adjunctive inhaled colistin (weak recommendation, low-quality evidence).

Values and Preferences: These recommendations place a high value on achieving clinical cure and survival; they place a lower value on burden and cost.

Remarks: Inhaled colistin may have potential pharmacokinetic advantages compared to inhaled polymyxin B, and clinical evidence based on controlled studies has also shown that inhaled colistin may be associated with improved clinical outcomes. The clinical evidence for inhaled polymyxin B is mostly from anecdotal and uncontrolled studies; we are therefore not suggesting use of inhaled polymyxin B. Colistin for inhalation should be administered promptly after being mixed with sterile water. This recommendation was made by the FDA after a report that a cystic fibrosis patient died after being treated with a premixed colistin formulation [3]. Intravenous polymyxin B may have potential pharmacokinetic advantages compared to intravenous colistin, but clinical data are lacking in patients with HAP/VAP.

## Summary of the Evidence

Our systematic review identified 5 observational studies [256, 257, 261, 339, 340] and 4 randomized trials [259, 331, 332, 334] relevant to the clinical question. Acinetobacter baumannii was the only organism or predominant organism in most studies, and intravenous colistin monotherapy was the comparator in most studies.

Most of the studied antibiotics conferred similar effects when given intravenously. A trial that randomly assigned patients to ampicillin- sulbactam or intravenous colistin found no difference in mortality or clinical response [332]. An observational study that similarly compared intravenous colistin and sulbactam to intravenous colistin alone detected no difference in the clinical response or microbiological response [340]. Two randomized trials comparing rifampicin plus intravenous colistin to intravenous colistin alone found no difference in mortality, clinical response, or hospital length of stay [331, 334].

In contrast, the addition of inhaled colistin to intravenous colistin appeared beneficial. Three observational studies [256, 257, 261] and one randomized trial [259] evaluated the effects of combination therapy with inhaled and intravenous colistin. Our meta- analysis of these 4 studies showed an improved clinical cure rate (RR, 1.29; 95% CI, 1.11- 1.51) and trend toward improved mortality (RR, 0.75; 95% CI, 52- 1.09) when the combination of adjunctive inhaled colistin plus intravenous colistin was compared to intravenous colistin monotherapy. Of note, the meta- analysis was repeated after removing one of the studies deemed to have a high risk of bias because carbapenem- resistant infections were not equally distributed between the 2 study arms and nearly 50% of patients may have had carbapenem- sensitive infections [257]. The repeat meta- analysis found

that combination therapy with inhaled and intravenous colistin was still superior to intravenous colistin monotherapy in terms of clinical cure (RR, 1.28; \(95\%\) CI, 1.07-1.55).Inhaled colistin was not associated with nephrotoxicity, bronchospasm, or neurotoxicity, although this outcome was not systematically evaluated across studies. The risk for the development of resistant strains with inhaled colistin was addressed in one study, and no such cases were identified [256].

Nephrotoxicity is the most common side effect of intravenous colistin. In 3 studies, the frequency of colistin- associated nephrotoxicity ranged from \(19\%\) to \(33\%\) [256, 261, 332]. This degree of renal dysfunction may be unavoidable when treating critically ill patients. In fact, a meta- regression analysis showed no difference in the rate of nephrotoxicity in patients with VAP who were treated with colistin compared with more traditional agents [184]. The addition of inhaled colistin did not increase the risk of renal injury or the emergence of colistin- resistant infections. The development of Acinetobacter resistance to inhaled colistin has only been described in spontaneously breathing patients, probably because drug concentrations in the airway are significantly lower in these patients compared with patients on mechanical ventilation [341]. Recommendations regarding the frequency of administration and the total daily dose of intravenous colistin or polymyxin B and whether a loading dose should be administered are evolving and are beyond the scope of these guidelines, but a suggestion is made in Table 3 (see section X). These issues should be addressed with the assistance of a critical care pharmacist. Similar concerns surround the use of inhaled colistin, as neither the dose nor method of delivery is standardized. Evidence on polymyxin B for the treatment of HAP/VAP is growing, but also limited by low- quality evidence [305- 308, 338].

The panel had moderate confidence in the finding of no difference among most antibiotic regimens because the finding derived from randomized trials with indirectness of the intervention (ie, colistin dosing was highly variable). In contrast, the panel had low confidence in the estimated effects of inhaled plus intravenous colistin compared with intravenous colistin alone because the effects derived from observational studies with indirectness of the intervention, as well as from randomized trials with a risk of bias (lack of blinding) and imprecision (wide CIs for the outcome of mortality).

## Rationale for the Recommendation

Intravenous colistin or polymyxin B is standard therapy for HAP/VAP caused by a carbapenem- resistant pathogen because such pathogens commonly demonstrate in vitro susceptibility to only the polymyxin antibiotic class. Our systematic review found no alternative antibiotic regimen with effects superior to intravenous colistin; the panel judged that intravenous polymyxins should remain the preferred therapy until an alternative antimicrobial regimen is definitively shown to be more beneficial or less harmful, as clinical experience is becoming more extensive.

The panel agreed that the benefits of inhaled colistin plus intravenous colistin or polymyxin B combination therapy outweighed the downsides in most patients with HAP/VAP caused by a carbapenem- resistant pathogen. The benefits considered by the panel were an improved clinical cure rate and trend toward improved mortality, while the downsides included potential harms (ie, nephrotoxicity, acquisition of colistin resistance, and other less severe side effects), increased burdens, and increased costs.

LENGTH OF THERAPY

#### Recommendation

1. For patients with VAP, we recommend a 7-day course of antimicrobial therapy rather than a longer duration (strong recommendation, moderate-quality evidence).Remarks: There exist situations in which a shorter or longer duration of antibiotics may be indicated, depending upon the rate of improvement of clinical, radiologic, and laboratory parameters.

## Summary of the Evidence

We identified 2 published systematic reviews of randomized trials [342, 343] and an observational study [344] that compared shortcourse antibiotic therapy to prolonged- course therapy for VAP.

One systematic review [342] included 6 randomized trials [120, 158, 345- 348] that enrolled 508 patients with HAP/VAP and compared fixed durations of antibiotic therapy. Nearly all of the patients had VAP, rather than HAP. Short courses of antibiotics (ie, 7- 8 days) increased 28- day antibiotic- free days (mean difference, 4.02 days; \(95\%\) CI, 2.26- 5.78 days) and reduced recurrent VAP due to MDR pathogens (42.1% vs \(62.3\%\) OR, 0.44; \(95\%\) CI, 21- 95) compared with long courses of antibiotics (ie, 10- 15 days). There were no differences in mortality, recurrent pneumonia, treatment failure, hospital length of stay, or duration of mechanical ventilation. In the subgroup of patients with VAP due to a non- glucose- fermenting gram- negative bacillus including Pseudomonas and Acinetobacter (33% of patients), short courses of antibiotics were associated with recurrent infection (OR, 2.18; \(95\%\) CI, 1.14- 4.16), but no other differences.

The other systematic review [343] similarly included 4 randomized trials [345, 346, 348] that enrolled 883 patients with VAP and compared short- course antibiotic regimens (ie, 7- 8 days) to long- course regimens (ie, 10- 15 days). Short- course regimens increased antibiotic- free days, but there was no difference in mortality, recurrent pneumonia, ventilator- free days, duration of mechanical ventilation, or length of ICU stay.

We conducted our own meta- analyses using the trials that were included in the published systematic reviews, as well as data provided by these trials' authors. We also found no differences between short- course antibiotic regimens (ie, 7- 8 days) and long- course regimens (ie, 10- 15 days) in terms of mortality, clinical cure, and recurrent pneumonia. Of note, the specific subpopulation with VAP due to non- glucose- fermenting gram- negative bacilli was analyzed, and no differences were observed for pneumonia recurrence (OR, 1.42; 95% CI, .66- 3.04; \(P = .37\) ) or mortality (OR, 0.94; 95% CI, .56- 1.59; \(P = .83\) ).

The observational study enrolled patients with VAP due to non- glucose- fermenting gram- negative bacilli, including 27 patients who were treated with antibiotics for 3- 8 days and 127 patients who were treated for 29 days. There were no differences in mortality or recurrence rate among patients who received a short course of antibiotics compared to those who received a long course [344].

Taken together, the evidence indicates that short courses of antibiotics reduce antibiotic exposure and recurrent pneumonia due to MDR organisms. Other clinical outcomes such as mortality do not appear to be affected by the duration of antibiotic therapy, with the exception of short courses, which were associated with recurrence of the initial VAP due to a non- glucose- fermenting gram- negative bacillus in some previous studies, but not in our updated meta- analysis. The panel's confidence in these results was moderate, reflecting that they derive from meta- analyses of randomized trials that have a risk for bias. The risk of bias is due to many of the trials not being blinded and recurrence being measured at 30 days, which allows more time for recurrence to occur in the short- course arms of the trials, potentially biasing the studies in favor of long- course antibiotics. There was also indirectness; the question is for all patients with VAP, but the largest trial excluded patients with early VAP.

## Rationale for the Recommendation

The desirable consequences of a short- course antibiotic regimen are that it decreases antibiotic exposure and antibiotic resistance, without increasing recurrent disease or mortality. The decreased antibiotic exposure almost certainly reduces costs and superinfections. The undesirable consequence of a short- course antibiotic regimen is that it occasionally antibiotics will be discontinued in a patient who needs them, resulting in recurrent VAP. The evidence suggests that this is very uncommon and, therefore, the panel had a high level of confidence that the benefits of a short- course antibiotic regimen outweighed the harms, leading to their recommendation to use antibiotics for 7 days rather than 8- 15 days in patients with VAP.

The panel considered whether a separate recommendation was indicated for patients with VAP due to non- glucose- fermenting gram- negative bacilli, in light of the previous evidence suggesting that recurrence may be increased in such

patients who receive a short course of antibiotics. The panel agreed that a different recommendation was not indicated because, even if there is a small increased recurrence rate, mortality and clinical cure do not appear to be affected; in addition, the evidence for recurrence is from subgroup analyses with important limitations. These include all of the following: There was potential bias in favor of long- course therapy due to the differential time period during which recurrence was assessed; there was the possibility that the second episode of VAP is incorrectly being considered a recurrence because of persistent colonizing organisms being cultured; many studies reported superinfections from both lung and other organ sites (eg, urinary tract infection) as recurrence; pulmonary infiltrates are known to persist on imaging studies and lag behind clinical resolution, leading to false identification of a new or recurrent pneumonia; and many subgroup analyses were performed, raising the possibility of multiple hypothesis testing.

A more recent and larger body of evidence comparing short- course vs long- course antibiotic treatment found no differences in mortality, recurrent pneumonia, treatment failure, hospital length of stay, or duration of mechanical ventilation (see section XXI).

XXII. What Is the Optimal Duration of Antibiotic Therapy for HAP (Non-VAP)?

#### Recommendation

1. For patients with HAP, we recommend a 7-day course of antimicrobial therapy (strong recommendation, very low-quality evidence).

Remarks: There exist situations in which a shorter or longer duration of antibiotics may be indicated, depending upon the rate of improvement of clinical, radiologic, and laboratory parameters.

## Summary of the Evidence

The guideline panel found no studies that provided useful data for comparing short- term to long- term antibiotic therapy in HAP; however, the duration of therapy has been studied in VAP. Short courses of antibiotics (ie, 7- 8 days) increased 28- day antibiotic- free days (mean difference, 4.02 days; 95% CI, 2.26- 5.78 days) and reduced recurrent VAP due to MDR pathogens (42.1% vs 62.3%; OR, 0.44; 95% CI, .21- .95) compared with long courses of antibiotics (ie, 10- 15 days). There were no differences in mortality, recurrent pneumonia, treatment failure, hospital length of stay, or duration of mechanical ventilation. In the subgroup of patients with VAP due to a non- glucose- fermenting gram- negative bacillus, including Pseudomonas and Acinetobacter (33% of patients), short courses of antibiotics were associated with recurrence (41.8% vs 24.7%; OR, 2.18; 95% CI, 1.14- 4.16), but no mortality or other clinical differences were found [342, 345- 347]. The increased risk of recurrence might have been in part due to bias created by how the time to recurrence was defined. A more recent and larger body of evidence comparing short- course vs long- course antibiotic treatment found no differences in mortality, recurrent pneumonia, treatment failure, hospital length of stay, or duration of mechanical ventilation (see section XXI).

Due to the absence of studies comparing short- term to long- term antibiotic therapy in patients with HAP, the guideline panel used evidence from patients with VAP to inform its judgments. The evidence suggests that antibiotic therapy for \(\leq 7\) days does not reduce the benefits of antibiotic therapy; however, the shorter duration of therapy almost certainly reduces antibiotic- related side effects, C. difficile colitis, the acquisition of antibiotic resistance, and costs. Given these potential benefits of a shorter duration of therapy without known harms, the panel decided that empiric antibiotic therapy should be prescribed for \(\leq 7\) days. The recommendation is strong, reflecting the panel's belief in the importance of avoiding therapies that are potentially harmful and costly if there is no evidence of benefit.

The guideline panel agreed that it is reasonable to empirically de- escalate the antimicrobial regimen to a single broad- spectrum antibiotic in patients who have a negative sputum culture and are clinically improving, provided that there is ongoing coverage according to a local HAP antibiogram, or, if not available, for enteric gram- negative bacilli and MSSA. Patients who have not had sputum cultures performed, have factors that diminish the reliability of the sputum culture (eg, antibiotic therapy prior to obtaining the sample or a poor- quality sample), or are at high risk for MDR infections may not be appropriate candidates for de- escalation.

XXIII. Should Antibiotic Therapy Be De-escalated or Fixed in Patients With HAP/VAP? Recommendation

1. For patients with HAP/VAP, we suggest that antibiotic therapy be de-escalated rather than fixed (weak recommendation, very low-quality evidence).Remarks: De-escalation refers to changing an empiric broad-spectrum antibiotic regimen to a narrower antibiotic regimen by changing the antimicrobial agent or changing from combination therapy to monotherapy. In contrast, fixed antibiotic therapy refers to maintaining a broad-spectrum antibiotic regimen until therapy is completed.

## Summary of the Evidence

We identified 6 relevant studies that enrolled patients with nosocomial pneumonia [194,196,229,349- 351].One of the studies was a randomized trial [229], and the remaining 5 were observational studies [196, 349- 351]. One study found lower mortality with de- escalation therapy [196], 3 studies found a non- statistically significant reduction in mortality with de- escalation therapy [349- 351], and 2 studies found an increase in mortality with de- escalation therapy [194, 229]. When the studies were pooled, there was no difference in mortality for the de- escalation group vs the fixed- regimen group ( \(19.7\%\) vs \(22.6\%\) OR,0.81; \(95\%\) CI,64- 1.1).

Other outcomes were similarly inconsistent or unaffected by the antimicrobial strategy. For ICU length of stay, the randomized trial found that de- escalation caused a non- statistically significant decrease in the length of stay [229], whereas one of the observational studies found that de- escalation was associated with a non- statistically significant increase in the length of stay [349]. Recurrence of pneumonia was the same in both the de- escalation and fixed- regimen groups in 2 observational studies [194, 350]. One of the studies reported an increase in emergence of resistant pathogens, particularly MRSA, in the de- escalation group \(37.9\%\) vs \(16.7\%\) \(P< .05\) [229].

Following our systematic review, a randomized trial was reported that specifically compared a de- escalation strategy of antimicrobial management to a fixed strategy. It defined de- escalation as narrowing the spectrum of initial antimicrobial therapy and a fixed strategy as the continuation of appropriate antimicrobial therapy until therapy was complete. The trial randomly assigned 116 patients with sepsis in the ICU to receive either a de- escalation strategy or fixed strategy. Pneumonia was a more common cause of sepsis in the de- escalation group \(58\%\) vs \(40\%\) . De- escalation increased the number of antimicrobial days (9 days vs 7.5 days; \(P = .03\) ) and the risk of superinfection \(27\%\) vs \(11\%\) RR,2.58; \(95\%\) CI,1.09- 6.12). There was no difference in mortality or ICU length of stay [352]. In a subgroup analysis of the 56 patients with pneumonia, there were no differences in any of the outcomes measured.

Taken together, the evidence indicates the following: There are no differences between de- escalation and a fixed antimicrobial regimen in terms of mortality or ICU length of stay; there is conflicting evidence about the effect of de- escalation on the incidence of recurrent pneumonia; and de- escalation may increase antimicrobial days, superinfection, and the emergence of MRSA. The panel's confidence in these estimated effects is very low. The panel's systematic review consisted mostly of observational studies that were limited by risk of bias, indirectness (different definitions of de- escalation, different antimicrobial regimens and protocols), and inconsistent results. The subsequent randomized trial was limited by both serious risk of bias (not blinded, failure of randomization [ie, baseline differences]) and probably also indirectness (the question is about patients with HAP/VAP, but the trial may have included patients with healthcare- associated non- HAP/VAP pneumonia).

## Rationale for the Recommendation

De- escalation is widely considered the preferable approach to antimicrobial management and has become a principle of antimicrobial stewardship. National guidelines and numerous papers contend that de- escalation is beneficial because it likely reduces antimicrobial resistance, side effects, and costs [1, 195, 353- 358]. However, there is very little evidence that substantiates these presumed benefits, and there is some evidence (albeit very poor- quality evidence) that de- escalation may have some undesirable effects. These undesirable effects may, in part, be the result of changing an appropriate antimicrobial regimen

to an inappropriate regimen due to misinterpretation of microbiological tests, misleading microbiological tests (eg, poorquality specimens reflecting contamination), or erroneous decision making.

The panelists felt that the evidence was poor and that they had essentially no confidence in the estimated effects of a de- escalation strategy compared with a fixed regimen. Therefore, the panel elected to inform its recommendation with unsystematic observations (ie, clinical experience) and clinical rationale. They had a high level of confidence that de- escalation reduces costs, burdens, and side effects, and that it is very likely that de- escalation also reduces antimicrobial resistance. In contrast, they thought it may be possible that recurrent pneumonia could be increased by de- escalation, but had serious doubts that de- escalation could increase superinfection or antimicrobial days. When these factors were considered together, the panel judged that the potential benefits of de- escalation outweigh the possible harms and, therefore, recommended de- escalation.

Research Needs

Well- done randomized trials comparing the effects of de- escalation and fixed antimicrobial regimens on clinical outcomes are urgently needed. With antibiotic resistance considered one of the most significant threats of the current era and de- escalation a potential way to combat resistance, such research demands a high priority.

XXIV. Should Discontinuation of Antibiotic Therapy Be Based Upon PCT Levels Plus Clinical Criteria or Clinical Criteria Alone in Patients With HAP/VAP?

#### Recommendation

1. For patients with HAP/VAP, we suggest using PCT levels plus clinical criteria to guide the discontinuation of antibiotic therapy, rather than clinical criteria alone (weak recommendation, low-quality evidence).

Remarks: It is not known if the benefits of using PCT levels to determine whether or not to discontinue antibiotic therapy exist in settings where standard antimicrobial therapy for VAP is already 7 days or less.

## Summary of the Evidence

We identified a published systematic review that selected randomized trials that enrolled patients with acute respiratory infections and compared PCT- based antibiotic decision making with conventional (ie, no PCT) decision making. The review selected 14 trials with 4221 patients and found that PCT- based decision making decreased antibiotic exposure (adjusted mean difference, \(- 3.47\) days; \(95\%\) CI, \(- 3.78\) to \(- 3.17\) days) and was not associated with increased mortality or treatment failure [359, 360]. The generalizability of these findings is limited by indirectness, as the question is about the discontinuation of antibiotics in patients with VAP, but the trials included patients with any type of acute respiratory infection and evaluated both the initiation and discontinuation of antibiotics. The evidence is predominantly from patients with VAP, so our recommendations for HAP are mostly based on VAP studies.

In addition, we identified 2 published randomized trials [361, 362] and an abstract of a randomized trial [363], all of which specifically evaluated the discontinuation of antibiotic therapy for VAP on the basis of PCT levels plus clinical criteria vs clinical criteria alone. When pooled, the trials included 308 patients with VAP and found that those patients whose antibiotics were either continued or discontinued on the basis of PCT levels plus clinical criteria had a shorter duration of antibiotic therapy (9.1 days vs 12.1 days; \(P< .00001\) ), but no difference in mortality. Other outcomes were reported by only some of the trials, but included no effects on the duration of mechanical ventilation, length of ICU stay, length of hospital stay, incidence of recurrent pneumonia, or development of resistance.

Taken together, the evidence suggests that discontinuing antibiotics on the basis of PCT levels plus clinical criteria decreases antibiotic exposure compared with using clinical criteria alone; all other outcomes remain unchanged. The panel had low confidence in these results because they derive from a meta- analysis of 14 randomized trials with both a serious risk of bias (the trials were not blinded) and indirectness, as well as from a meta- analysis of 3 randomized trials with a serious risk of bias (the trials were not blinded) and some inconsistency \((I^{2} = 21\%)\) . Moreover, the control groups in the trials had routinely received 9- 15 days of antibiotics; it is uncertain if a benefit would also be seen in hospitals that have a lower baseline duration of antibiotic therapy [342, 345].

## Rationale for the Recommendation

The desirable consequence associated with the use of PCT levels to guide the discontinuation of empiric antibiotic therapy is that it decreases antibiotic exposure without increasing treatment failure or mortality. The decreased antibiotic exposure almost certainly reduces costs and side effects. The undesirable consequences of using PCT levels to guide the discontinuation of empiric antibiotic therapy are that PCT testing is more costly and burdensome than clinical criteria alone. Moreover, falsely low PCT levels may encourage inappropriate discontinuation of necessary antibiotic therapy and falsely high PCT levels may lead to the continuation of unnecessary antibiotic therapy. When all these factors were considered, the panel felt that the benefits of decreased antibiotic exposure outweighed the costs, burdens, and uncertain results associated with PCT testing.