---
title: Respiratory Support
tags: [脓毒症, 脓毒性休克, 感染性休克, 重症感染, 血流感染, 脓毒症筛查, 早期管理, 抗生素, 液体复苏, 血管活性药物, 去甲肾上腺素, 血流动力学, 呼吸支持, 辅助治疗, 血糖控制, ICU管理, 安宁疗护, sepsis, septic shock, Surviving Sepsis Campaign, SSC, infection, SIRS, qSOFA, SOFA]
diagnoses: [脓毒症, 脓毒性休克, 感染性休克, 重症感染, 血流感染]
topics: [脓毒症筛查, 早期管理, 抗生素, 液体复苏, 血管活性药物, 去甲肾上腺素, 血流动力学, 呼吸支持, 辅助治疗, 血糖控制, ICU管理, 安宁疗护]
source: SSC 2026 Surviving Sepsis Campaign
source_type: 临床指南
date: 2026年
year: 2026
lang: en
aliases: [sepsis, septic shock, Surviving Sepsis Campaign, SSC, infection, SIRS, qSOFA, SOFA]
---

# Respiratory Support

Monitoring of hypoxemia
65. For adults with sepsis, we “suggest” measuring oxygenation by either pulse oximeter (Spo2) or arterial blood gas (Sao2) in conjunction with physical examination and clinical acumen
(conditional recommendation, very low certainty evidence)
Remarks: Arterial blood gas measurements are the gold standard for assessing oxygenation; include other important information such as pH, Paco2, lactate, and bicarbonate; and are preferable when available. Spo2/Fio2 by pulse oximeter may substitute for Pao2/Fio2 ratio, but is less accurate in patients in shock, with darker skin tones, and/or with oxygen saturations < 90% or > 97%
New
Arterial blood gas (ABG) measurement is the gold standard for assessing oxygenation, but is invasive, costly, and not available in all settings. Pulse oximetry is non-invasive, more universally available, and can provide continuous monitoring that is easy to interpret, though its accuracy is reduced in low perfusion states. Measurement of the ratio of arterial oxygen tension (Pao2) to Fio2 (Fio2) is required for the hypoxemia criterion for the diagnosis of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). However, a growing body of evidence also supports the use of the ratio of pulse oximetry-based measurements such as oxygen saturation (Spo2) to Fio2 for the clinical diagnosis and management of ARDS.
Our recommendation is in part based on a systematic review of 45 observational studies, 30 of which were in adult patients with acute respiratory failure, that examined the accuracy of substituting an Spo2/Fio2 ratio for a Pao2/Fio2 ratio and found the Spearman correlation co-efficient ranged between 0.5 and 0.8 [454]. Furthermore, the Pao2/Fio2 ratio could most often be derived using a simple linear equation first described by Rice and colleagues [455]. However, the correlation is less accurate when oxygen saturations are less than 90% or greater than 97% (related to the shape of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve). In addition, a large single-center study in adult patients in the United States, comparing 48,097 paired oxygenation values by pulse oximetry and ABG, showed that Black patients had nearly three times the frequency of occult hypoxemia compared with White patients that was not detected by pulse oximetry [456]. A systematic review that examined accuracy of arterial oxygenation by pulse oximetry including 44 studies, reported an overestimation of arterial oxygen saturation (Sao2) by pulse oximetry in patients with darker skin tones [457]. The lower the Sao2, the greater the degree of overestimation bias. However, different pulse oximeters models were used in the included studies, and participants’ skin tones were not measured objectively.
Based on this evidence, the panel issued a conditional recommendation for measuring oxygenation either using pulse oximetry (Spo2) or arterial blood gas (Sao2) in conjunction with physical examination and clinical acumen. However, the panel cautioned against using pulse oximetry for oxygenation measurements in patients in shock, with darker skin tones, and/or oxygen saturations less than 90% or greater than 97% due to its inaccuracies and emphasized that ABG measurements are the gold standard for assessing oxygenation and are preferred when available.
The new global consensus definition of ARDS allows for the use of pulse oximetry-based measurements for the diagnosis of ARDS [458]. The use of Spo2/Fio2less than 315 (if Spo2 < 97%) has been suggested for use in low-resource settings when an ABG is unavailable, as an alternative to Pao2/Fio2 for the diagnosis of ARDS (mild) in non-intubated patients with ARDS and to categorize the severity in intubated patients with ARDS. Clinicians should exercise caution substituting an S/F ratio for a P/F ratio for patients in shock, with darker skin tones and with oxygen saturations less than 90% or greater than 97%. In the future, ARDS definitions may go beyond these syndromic concepts in favor of treatable traits [459].
The increasing recognition of diagnostic inaccuracy should also spur further clinical research in this space with consideration of the development of pulse oximeters that can overcome these inaccuracies. However, until such time, improving equity in routine ABG testing is paramount to mitigate occult hypoxemia.
Oxygen targets
66. For adults with sepsis and acute hypoxemic respiratory failure, we “suggest” titrating Fio2 to target either higher, more liberal oxygen levels or lower, conservative oxygen levels depending on patient factors and resource limitations
(conditional recommendation, low certainty evidence)
Remark: Although there was variability across trials informing this recommendation, most used a lower target of approximately 90–93% Spo2 and a higher target of Spo2 ≥ 96
Remark: “In our practice”, panelists target Spo2 between 90% (IQR 90–92%) to 96% (IQR 94–98%) for patients with sepsis and acute hypoxemic respiratory failure
New
This recommendation is based on 10 RCTs (24,022 patients) reporting 28-day or 90-day mortality [460,461,462,463,464,465,466,467,468,469]. Meta-analysis of these trials demonstrated that lower, conservative oxygen targets may result in little to no difference in short-term mortality (RR 1.02; 95% CI, 0.99–1.05, translating to 7 more deaths per 1000 patients, 95% CI, 4 fewer to 18 more, low certainty). There may also be little to no difference in the duration of mechanical ventilation (0.29 more days, 95% CI, 0.76 fewer to 1.34 more, low certainty) or mechanical ventilation-free days (1.7 fewer with lower oxygen targets 95% CI, 5.88 fewer to 2.48 more, low certainty), but these estimates were each based on one trial [466, 470]. Given the trivial effect size for critical outcomes with lower vs. higher oxygen targets, lower oxygen targets may result in little to no difference in mortality or other outcomes at the individual level. However, given the large number of patients with sepsis and acute hypoxemic respiratory failure, a small effect size might still have an important population impact. However, in low-resource settings where oxygen therapy or mechanical ventilators are limited, titrating to lower oxygen targets may be more beneficial overall.
Although the higher, liberal oxygen targets in included trials were similar (generally Spo2 ≥ 96%), the lower, conservative oxygen targets varied considerably. Intermediate oxygen targets (Spo2 94–95%) were not addressed with this analysis, since few trials targeted this range. However, one trial [469] found no difference in ventilator-free days at 28 days with intermediate vs. higher oxygen targets (median ventilator-free days [VFD] 21 d [IQR 0–25] vs. 21 d [IQR 0–26]). The evidence did not provide guidance on whether a precise target within the higher oxygen target range (e.g., 96–97% vs. 98–100%) is optimal. However, the panel determined that it is reasonable to target the lower end of the liberal oxygen target range (Spo2 96–97%) or intermediate oxygen targets (Spo2 94–95%) even when resources are not limited.
This recommendation differs from a recent rapid practice guideline [471] that suggested against the routine use of higher oxygen targets. In contrast to the rapid practice guideline, we excluded trials that specifically targeted patients without sepsis, for example, trials focused on patients with acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cardiac arrest, stroke, or other acute neurologic injury. In addition, the SSC guidelines analysis included more recently published trials [464, 465, 468]. A further analysis done to support this guideline, updating a previous Cochrane meta-analysis [472], revealed no effect on mortality (RR 1.0 for mortality, 95% CI, 0.95–1.04, low certainty) when including all trials regardless of focus on sepsis or not.
The panel acknowledged some patients may benefit from lower oxygen targets while others may benefit from higher oxygen targets. Indeed, possible heterogeneity of treatment effect was identified in an individualized treatment effect analysis, where sepsis was associated with benefit from higher oxygen targets [473]. However, this was a retrospective analysis including a limited number of patients with sepsis [473]. The results from the MEGA-ROX trial which aims to enroll 40,000 patients will lend greater confidence to any estimate and provide another opportunity to assess for heterogeneity of treatment effect for oxygen targets among patients with sepsis (NCT04092468).
“In our practice,” panelists target Spo2 between 90% (IQR 90–92%) and 96% (IQR 94–98%) for patients with sepsis and acute hypoxemic respiratory failure.
Non-invasive respiratory support
67. For adults with sepsis and acute hypoxemic respiratory failure, we “suggest” using high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) therapy over conventional oxygen therapy
(conditional recommendation, very low certainty evidence)
Remark: This recommendation pertains to patients with a Pao2/Fio2 ratio < 200 or Spo2/Fio2 ratio < 235
New
68. For adults with sepsis and acute hypoxemic respiratory failure, we “suggest” using HFNC as the initial therapy over non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (conditional recommendation, low certainty evidence)
New
69. For adults with sepsis and acute hypoxemic respiratory failure, we “suggest” using HFNC over high flow alternating with non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (conditional recommendation, very low certainty evidence)
New
Conventional, low-flow oxygen therapy is commonly administered for treatment of hypoxemia. However, it cannot deliver a Fio2 exceeding 0.6–0.7 in the upper airways, even with a non-rebreathing facemask, and is limited by flow rates of less than or equal to 15 L/min. Alternatively, high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) can achieve Fio2 exceeding 0.8–0.9 and deliver flow rates up to 60 L/min of humidified gas, reducing work of breathing by mitigating the effect of anatomic dead space and potentially achieving low levels of positive airway pressure.
Patients with sepsis and acute hypoxemic respiratory failure might benefit from non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) to avoid intubation, invasive ventilation, and associated complications. However, HFNC oxygen therapy is easier to apply, generally more comfortable for the patient, allows for eating and speaking, and avoids various complications of NIPPV including increased risk of gastric insufflation, aspiration, and damage to facial skin.
The evidence for suggesting HFNC over conventional oxygen therapy is based on 11 RCTs (3546 patients) and applies to patients with a Pao2/Fio2 ratio less than 200 or an Spo2/Fio2 ratio less than 235 [474,475,476,477,478,479,480,481,482,483,484]. The evidence for suggesting HFNC over NIPPV is based on 7 RCTs (2,465 patients) [480, 485,486,487,488,489,490]. This evidence for suggesting HFNC over alternating HFNC and NIPPV is based on 2 RCTs (515 patients) [474, 491]. The main causes of acute respiratory failure in the included trials were infections and included trials focused on COVID-19 and respiratory failure in immunosuppressed patients. Trials focusing on patients with cardiogenic pulmonary edema or acute exacerbation of COPD were excluded.
In meta-analysis, HFNC therapy resulted in an uncertain but potential reduction in mortality (RR 0.90; 95% CI, 0.74–1.10, very low certainty); trivial reduction in hospital LOS (0.57 d; 95% CI, 1.52 fewer to 0.37 more, moderate certainty); [475, 477,478,479,480, 483, 484]; and uncertain but potential increase in VFDs (2.93 d more; 95% CI, 0.39 more to 5.47 more, very low certainty), as compared with conventional oxygen therapy [474, 477, 479, 484]. HFNC had an uncertain but possible reduction in need for intubation (RR 0.88; 95% CI, 0.77–1.00, very low certainty). With exception of hospital LOS (moderate certainty evidence), all other outcomes (mortality, VFD, and need for intubation) were graded as very-low-certainty evidence, and all were downgraded for imprecision. Data on severe adverse events (RR with HFNC 0.47 (95% CI, 0.22–1.02, low certainty evidence) were also limited by imprecision. Subgroup analysis in two studies indicated that the incidence of intubation was lower in patients with a Pao2/Fio2 less than or equal to 200 mmHg or Fio2 greater than 0.6 [474, 480].
In meta-analysis, HFNC was associated with a possible decrease in mortality (RR 0.89; 95% CI, 0.74–1.08, low certainty) [480, 485,486,487,488,489,490] and shorter duration of mechanical ventilation (MD 1.00 d fewer, 95% CI, 1.04 fewer to 0.95 fewer, moderate certainty), as compared with NIPPV [480, 490]. There was no effect on hospital LOS (0.19 d more; 95% CI, 0.45 fewer to 0.83 more, high certainty) [480, 485, 486, 488,489,490], an uncertain effect on ventilation-free days at 28 d (0.67 d fewer (95% CI, 1.43 fewer to 0.09 more, very low certainty) [485, 486, 488, 489], and probably no important effect on the rate of adverse events (7 more per 1000 patients for pneumonia (varied definitions), 95% CI, 4 fewer to 25 more, moderate certainty) [486, 489] and 2 more per 1000 patients for cardiac arrest (9 fewer to 23 more, moderate certainty) [489].
In meta-analysis, HFNC had an uncertain effect on mortality (RR 0.69, 95% CI, 0.30–1.58, very low certainty) [474, 491], as compared with alternating HFNC and NIPPV. HFNC was associated with shorter hospital LOS (MD 2 d fewer, 95% CI, 5.3 fewer to 1.3 more, low certainty) [491] and more ventilator-free days (MD 4 d more; 95% CI, 1.65 more to 6.35 more, low certainty) as compared with alternating therapy [474, 491].
The impact on mortality and duration of mechanical ventilation drove the suggestion of HFNC over conventional oxygen and NIPPV. Furthermore, HFNC appears safe and may be better tolerated than NIPPV. Indeed, in the FLORALI trial, respiratory discomfort (as measured by visual analog scale) was lower with HFNC, as compared with NIPPV alternating with HFNC [474]. The panel considered that HFNC probably costs more than conventional oxygen therapy due to requiring more disposables and oxygen, but that shorter duration of mechanical ventilation might result in an important cost reduction. Both HFNC and NIPPV require disposables, with alternating HFNC and NIPPV requiring even more. We did not identify any direct data analyzing cost-effectiveness. Although stakeholders are likely to find HFNC acceptable in places where it is available, incorporation of HFNC into care pathways for patients with sepsis and acute hypoxemic respiratory failure should be weighed against available oxygen supply. Given its higher oxygen consumption relative to low-flow oxygen therapy modalities [492], HFNC oxygen therapy might reduce the available oxygen supply and limit the number of patients who could be treated with supplemental oxygen therapy. In low-resource settings without HFNC, NIPPV has been suggested as reasonable alternative by an expert Delphi panel [184].
Awake proning
70. For adults with sepsis and acute hypoxemic respiratory failure who are not intubated, we “suggest” a trial of awake proning
(conditional recommendation, very low certainty evidence)
Remarks: The duration and frequency of proning will depend on patient tolerance. Sedation should not be used for the purposes of promoting tolerance of proning in non-intubated patients
New
Awake self-proning has been proposed as a method to improve oxygenation, reduce work of breathing, optimize ventilation perfusion matching, and potentially reduce the risk of further lung injury among patients with acute hypoxic respiratory failure [493].
We identified 17 RCTs (3537 patients) to inform this recommendation [100, 494,495,496,497,498,499,500,501,502,503,504,505,506,507,508,509]. Awake proning may result in a slight reduction in the requirement for intubation (RR 0.82, 95% CI, 0.73–0.93, low certainty) [494,495,496,497,498,499,500, 503,504,505, 507, 509]. Meta-analysis yielded uncertain results for most other outcomes due to indirectness (as all trials focused on patients with COVID-19) and imprecision. However, point estimates suggested that awake proning may result in reduced mortality at 14 days (RR 0.89; 95% CI, 0.64–1.24, very low certainty) [495, 497, 498, 502, 503, 505,506,507,508,509], increased hospital-free days (MD 3.6 d more, 95% CI, 0.95 fewer to 8.15 more, very low certainty) [494], and increased VFD (MD 0.78 d more, 95% CI, 1.28 d fewer to 2.84 more) [494, 500, 507, 508], but with wide CIs that could not exclude the possibility of harm. Furthermore, point estimates suggested that awake proning may result in increased serious adverse events (RR 2.54, 95% CI, 0.61–10.58, very low certainty) [494, 496, 498, 499, 503].
Two recently published systematic reviews of awake proning for COVID-19 patients both found that the intervention was associated with a reduced need for intubation and mechanical ventilation [493, 510]. In contrast to our analysis, an individual patient-level meta-analysis also concluded that mortality was reduced with awake proning (RR 0.70, 95% CI, 0.59–0.84) [493]. However, our evidence synthesis differed in analytic approach as well as inclusion criteria (RCTs only; awake proning vs. no proning, no assessment of proning duration).
Awake proning can be accomplished with minimal cost and appears safe but has been studied only in patients with COVID-19. These results will be important for another future pandemic, because of the low cost and wide availability of proning. In addition, there is considerable equity in low-resource settings where there may be a shortage of ventilators. Since the duration of proning depends on patient tolerance (and patients should not be sedated to achieve proning when not intubated), we are unable to make a recommendation on the duration of awake proning.
Invasive mechanical ventilation
71. For adults with sepsis and ARDS, we “recommend” using a low tidal volume ventilation strategy (6 mL/kg) over a high tidal volume strategy (> 10 mL/kg) (strong recommendation, high certainty of evidence)
Carryover
72. For adults with sepsis-associated hypoxemic respiratory failure without ARDS, we “suggest” using a tidal volume of 6—8 mL/kg ideal body weight (IBW) over a lower (4 to < 6 mL/kg IBW) tidal volume
(conditional recommendation, low certainty evidence)
Remarks: Patients should be screened regularly for development of ARDS, as ARDS diagnosis is often missed or delayed in clinical practice
New
73. For adults with sepsis and ARDS, we “recommend” using an upper limited goal for plateau pressure of 30 cm H20) over higher plateau pressures (strong recommendation, high certainty of evidence)
Carryover
74. For adults with sepsis and moderate-severe ARDS, we “suggest” using higher positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) over lower PEEP (conditional recommendation, moderate certainty of evidence)
Carryover
75. For adults with sepsis and moderate-severe ARDS, we “recommend against” using an incremental PEEP titration strategy (strong recommendation, moderate certainty of evidence)
Carryover
76. For adults with sepsis and moderate-severe ARDS, we “suggest” using prone ventilation for greater than 12 h daily (conditional recommendation, moderate certainty of evidence)
Carryover
77. For adults with sepsis and moderate-severe ARDS, we “suggest” using intermittent NMBA boluses over continuous NMBA infusion (conditional recommendation, moderate certainty of evidence)
Carryover
Most statements on invasive mechanical ventilation were carried over, please see 2021 guidelines for rationale [65, 66].
There is a lack of guidance regarding the optimal tidal volume for mechanically ventilated patients without ARDS, particularly considering low vs. moderate tidal volumes. We identified two RCTs comparing low (4–6 mL/kg IBW) vs. moderate tidal volumes (8–10 mL/kg IBW) in general populations of mechanically ventilated critically ill patients, including those with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure and sepsis, which informed our recommendation [511, 512]. Meta-analysis revealed possibly no difference in mortality at 90 days (RR 1.04; 95% CI, 0.89–1.22), although CIs could not exclude harm. We similarly found no important difference between low and moderate tidal volumes in hospital LOS (MD 0.66 d shorter; 95% CI, 3.5 d shorter to 2.17 d longer, low certainty), duration of mechanical ventilation (MD 0.65 d shorter; 95% CI, 1.52 d shorter to 0.23 d longer, moderate certainty), VFD at day 28 (MD 0.05 d more; 95% CI, 1.34 d fewer to 1.45 d more, very low certainty), and in incidence of ARDS (RR 0.85; 95% CI, 0.49–1.47, low certainty) and pneumonia (RR 1.10; 95% CI, 0.66–1.82, low certainty) within 7 days of ICU admission. One trial suggested that there may be an increased risk for delirium in the lower tidal volume group (RR 1.19; 95% CI, 0.99–1.42, moderate certainty) [512].
In practice, clinicians commonly ventilate patients with moderate tidal volumes not represented in these two trials (e.g., 7 mL/kg IBW) [513]. We advise clinicians to carefully screen their patients for ARDS to ensure appropriate tidal volumes are used because under-recognition of ARDS occurs in a significant proportion (48.7–52.4%) of patients who meet criteria [514, 515]. Even in patients with known ARDS, there are barriers to maintaining evidence-based mechanical ventilatory strategies, and clinicians should ensure they do not routinely expose patients who are mechanically ventilated to higher tidal volumes (e.g., > 10 mL/kg IBW) [516, 517].
Given the balance of effects and pragmatic concerns that ARDS is often under-recognized, the panel felt that recommending lower tidal volumes of 6–8 mL/kg IBW in adults who are mechanically ventilated for sepsis-induced hypoxemic respiratory failure without ARDS was the safest approach to prevent volume-induced lung injuries in those patients who may have early evolving or unrecognized ARDS.
Veno-venous ECMO
78. For adults with severe ARDS due to sepsis, we “suggest” using veno-venous ECMO when conventional mechanical ventilation fails in experienced centers with infrastructure to support its use (conditional recommendation, low certainty of evidence)
Carryover
This statement was carried over, please see the 2021 guidelines for rationale [65, 66].