---
title: "1.2. What markers of the regional circulation and tissue oxygenation in shock should be used?"
tags: [休克, 循环性休克, 血流动力学, 液体反应性, 毛细血管充盈时间, 血乳酸, 中心静脉压, 超声心动图, 心输出量, 休克定义, 休克诊断, shock, hemodynamic monitoring, fluid responsiveness, CRT, lactate, 去甲肾上腺素, 血管活性药物, 微循环, 被动抬腿试验, 动脉压, ScvO2, SvO2, 静动脉CO2分压差, Pv-aCO2, Pv-aCO2/Ca-vO2, 皮肤灌注, 皮肤温度, 皮肤花斑, 组织氧合, 区域灌注, 无氧代谢, 氧输送, 氧消耗, 正性肌力药, 血管扩张药, 血管升压药, 脓毒性休克, 早期目标导向治疗, 乳酸引导复苏, 舌下微循环, 中心静脉导管, 动脉导管]
source: "2025 ESICM Guidelines Shock and Hemodynamic Monitoring"
source_type: 临床指南
year: 2025
lang: en
---

# 1.2. What markers of the regional circulation and tissue oxygenation in shock should be used?

#### Recommendations 1.2

4.  Serial assessment of tissue perfusion should be performed to follow shock evolution and to help assess the underlying pattern and the adequacy of CO and vascular function.
    *   Ungraded good practice statement/Ungraded evidence/Strong agreement
5.  Monitoring skin perfusion should be performed using the assessment of CRT and this could be complemented this with the assessment of skin temperature and mottling.
    *   Ungraded good practice statement/Ungraded evidence/Strong agreement
6.  In patients with a central venous catheter, serial measurements of (central) venous oxygen saturation \((S(c)\mathrm{vO}_2)\) should be performed.
    *   Ungraded good practice statement/Ungraded evidence/Strong agreement
7.  In patients with a central venous catheter and an arterial catheter, serial measurement of the veno-arterial difference in carbon dioxide partial pressure \((P_{\mathrm{v} - \mathrm{CO}_2})\) should be performed.
    *   Ungraded good practice statement/Ungraded evidence/Strong agreement
8.  In patients with a central venous catheter and an arterial catheter, one may consider performing serial measurements of the ratio of \(P_{\mathrm{v} - \mathrm{CO}_2}\) over the arterio-venous difference in oxygen partial content \((P_{\mathrm{v} - \mathrm{CO}_2} / C_{\mathrm{a} - \mathrm{O}_2})\)
    *   Ungraded good practice statement/Ungraded evidence/Strong agreement

#### Background

Clinical examination is key to assessing the critically ill patient with suspected circulatory failure. Although many clinical symptoms relate to global blood flow, they are not sensitive nor specific to assess the adequacy of CO [28]. In addition, improvements in macrocirculatory variables (such as arterial pressure and CO) may not necessarily translate into improvement in regional (or tissue) perfusion. Therefore, treatment of shock should also be guided by markers of peripheral/microcirculatory hypoperfusion. In experimental settings, numerous markers of tissue hypoperfusion and subsequent tissue hypoxia have been identified. However, their use in clinical practice is limited, either due to the requirement of specific monitoring devices (e.g., microdialysis) or specific measurements (e.g., lactate to pyruvate ratio).

#### Consensus on science

The skin may serve as an easy, early, and fast indicator of global tissue perfusion. CRT [29, 30] and skin mottling at first assessment have been related to outcome [31, 32]. Some studies have shown an association between markers of skin (peripheral) perfusion and perfusion of intraabdominal organs [33] and sublingual microcirculation [34]. However, these markers are influenced by multiple factors. Contrary to what has been observed in human models of shock [15], in critically ill patients, CRT and skin temperature are not reliable indicators of low CO [28] and do not follow CO changes [35].

Markers of peripheral perfusion may respond to various clinical interventions such as fluid resuscitation, inotrope, vasodilator, as well as vasopressor treatment [31, 36- 39]. However, when compared to regular clinical practice, the ultimate efficacy of normalizing peripheral perfusion variables using these interventions is not yet fully established [14]. Current clinical practice consists of serial monitoring and assessing whether interventions normalize these markers, as the persistence of abnormality is associated with increased morbidity and mortality in septic shock [40]. In septic shock, these markers may serve for adapting the blood pressure target, for instance, using a vasopressor test to assess whether an abnormal peripheral perfusion would improve with higher blood pressure [41]. In an RCT in septic shock patients, the use of peripheral perfusion as a target of resuscitation was more beneficial than using lactate to guide resuscitation [14, 42]. In addition, continued resuscitation to decrease or normalize lactate levels in patients with normal peripheral perfusion was associated with increased mortality when compared to no further hemodynamic treatment [43]. A recent systematic review concluded that, compared to usual care, resuscitation guided by lactate or CRT was likely to improve outcomes [26].

In experimental conditions, a progressive decrease in oxygen delivery is followed by a decrease in \(\mathrm{SvO}_2\) . In contrast, \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2}\) mainly increases when the involved mechanism is decreased blood flow [44, 45]. The changes in \(\mathrm{S(c)vO_2}\) and \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2}\) do not reflect tissue oxygenation as such but reflect the balance between oxygen delivery and consumption. Therefore, they serve as an easy marker of tissue perfusion. Although the correlation between \(\mathrm{SvO}_2\) and \(\mathrm{SvCO}_2\) is limited [46] and may be affected by regional \(\mathrm{O}_2\) desaturation [47, 48], the trending between these parameters seems adequate for using \(\mathrm{SvCO}_2\) in clinical practice. Low and especially persistently low \(\mathrm{SvO}_2\) [49] and \(\mathrm{SvCO}_2\) [50] are associated with poor outcomes. Of note, high \(\mathrm{S(c)}\) \(\mathrm{vO}_2\) values also are associated with a poor outcome [51, 52], highlighting that metabolism, microvascular perfusion, and mitochondrial function also influence \(\mathrm{S(c)vO}_2\) levels. Accordingly, interpreting and targeting \(\mathrm{S(c)vO}_2\) may be complex. The landmark study of Rivers et al. [53] showed improved outcome when incorporating \(\mathrm{SvCO}_2\) as a treatment target in septic shock patients. Although the subsequent early goal- directed therapy studies did not show benefit from this approach [54- 56], this needs to be contextualized as the publication of the landmark study [53] changed clinical practice significantly so that low \(\mathrm{ScoO_2}\) levels became rare [57]. Nevertheless, studies have suggested the benefit of targeting \(\mathrm{ScoO_2}\) in patients with sepsis [58].

In some studies, the \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2}\) was related to \(\mathrm{CO}\) \(\mathrm{ScoO_2}\) and tissue perfusion, suggesting this marker also functions as a flow- related variable in clinical practice [59]. In patients, improvements in global blood flow, by different interventions, are associated with decreases in \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2}\) increases in \(\mathrm{ScoO_2}\) and decreases in lactate levels, suggesting an improvement in tissue perfusion [60]. Of note, changes in metabolism may make the interpretation of changes in \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2}\) more complex. When excessive doses of inotropes are used, aerobic production of \(\mathrm{CO_2}\) increases more than the increase in flow, causing \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2}\) to increase [61]. Persistent abnormal \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2}\) is associated with increased mortality even in the context of normal \(\mathrm{S(c)vO_2}\) [62]. A \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2 > 6}\) mmHg suggests a persistent shock state that may be responsive to fluid and/or inotrope administration.

The ratio of \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2}\) over \(\mathrm{C_{a - v}O_2}\) has been introduced as a marker of anaerobic metabolism [63]. It has been shown to be associated with increased mortality within certain patient subgroups [64], including in patients with a high \(\mathrm{ScoO_2}\) [65]. During resuscitation, patients who improve oxygen consumption after fluid resuscitation, suggesting improved tissue oxygen delivery, had a significant decrease in \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2 / C_{a - v}O_2}\) from baseline, in contrast to patients in whom oxygen consumption did not change [66]. The improvement in oxygen consumption and the \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2 / C_{a - v}O_2}\) ratio were present in patients with a normal to high baseline \(\mathrm{ScoO_2}\) . This suggests adding the \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2 / C_{a - v}O_2}\) to \(\mathrm{ScoO_2}\) and \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2}\) might optimize resuscitation. To date, only one study used the \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2 / C_{a - v}O_2}\) as a goal of treatment, compared to \(\mathrm{ScoO_2}\) reporting no difference in outcome between the two groups [67].

The clinical use of both the \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2}\) and the \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2 / C_{a - v}O_2}\) requires careful interpretation as other factors \(\mathrm{CO_2}\) production, and its dissociation from hemoglobin, body temperature, acidosis, and tissue perfusion [68, 69]) may play a role. Therefore, in clinical practice, none of the markers discussed in this section should be used in isolation.

#### Expert opinion

In experimental and clinical conditions, markers of peripheral perfusion and tissue perfusion may respond to improvements in blood flow and are related to clinical outcomes. Given the limited evidence of currently available RCTs in the presence of sound physiological studies and controversies, we do not recommend using these markers in isolation. On the contrary, we suggest measuring and interpreting them simultaneously. In practice, the measurement of CRT, more or less associated with the assessment of skin temperature and mottling, should be coupled with the biological indices. Their meaning is different, and the information they provide is complementary. Indices of skin perfusion can be used as surrogates of global tissue perfusion, reflecting tissue blood flow and microcirculation reactivity. \(\mathrm{S(c)vO_2}\) directly reflects the adequacy between global oxygen supply and demand. The \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2}\) gradient is mainly determined by \(\mathrm{CO}\) and the \(\mathrm{P_{v - a}CO_2 / C_{a - v}O_2}\) ratio is a marker of anaerobic metabolism.

These variables should be measured along with macro- hemodynamic indices detailed in further statements, in particular arterial pressure and \(\mathrm{CO}\) in patients in whom it is justified. In addition, these markers rapidly respond to improvements in tissue perfusion where changes in lactate levels are slow and may be unrelated to changes in tissue perfusion already after initial resuscitation. Therefore, normalization of lactate levels should not be used as a target but viewed as a consequence of the adequacy of overall treatment.

There is no evidence in the literature to specify the frequency with which tissue perfusion assessment should be performed. This assessment should at least occur when hemodynamic variables such as blood pressure deteriorate, and following therapeutic interventions aimed to modify regional perfusion in order to measure their effectiveness.